Come back in this video we are going to check out if conditions and they are super super useful and
a very important basic concept of any programming language.
So let's go ahead and start with it.
I'm going to create a variable that I'm going to set to 15 and then I'm going to use an IF statement
in an order you create an if statement.
You can go ahead and use the F term and then afterwards you can write the condition.
So in my case I'm going to check if an is a lower than 18 and if it's lower than 18 then I want to execute
some code.
So you see I'm using a colon and I'm writing something now so I'm going to write the code in here that
I want to execute.
If this condition here is met.
So if end is lower than 18 then please print something and it's important that this print statement
is indented by a tap because if it is not then Python will not understand what's going on.
So whenever you use or you want to run some code within an if statement if the condition is met you
need to indented or writes on this guys.
I'm going to say something like you may not vote because if somebody is younger than 18 he's not allowed
to vote.
So let's execute that code.
And as you can see this statement is written onto the console.
So this condition here is met because and is just 15.
That's why the statement is executed here.
So if somebody let's say is 19 years old now let's execute the code again.
And as you can see nothing is printed onto the console.
And that is because and is higher than 18.
And that's why this condition is not met.
So this code is never executed.
Now let's add another code in here another line.
I am not indented So as you can see I'm not indented.
It's printed on two.
Why is that.
Well because this line of code is not indented.
That's why it's not considered part of this if statement.
So it's not considered as the body of this if statement which means that it's not execute while it's
executed.
In this case because while this condition is not met right.
So if I do like that I can execute it.
As you can see it's still executed but if I indent that print statement and execute it now it's not
printed onto the console because it thinks or in this case it is part of that statement.
So I'm going to get the indention lost or I'm going to delete indention so I'm going to do and then
only this print statement here.
You may not vote.
All right.
So what if I wanted to have a statement for all the other cases.
So if somebody doesn't meet this condition then I want to write some other code.
And that's why you have this if else.
So if and else if is the first request.
And if that's something that you can simply execute the code which comes off or else.
So let's check out how this looks going to create another variable.
I'm just going to set that to 10 and then I'm going to check if am is lower than five then print is
simple and is lower than 5.
But then on the other hand else just print something like in case higher than fourth or you could even
write something like can or if condition is not met.
So let's run that code.
And as you can see I get the statement here if condition is not met.
And that's because M is 10 so am lower 5 is not true.
So this condition here that we have is not true.
That means it just skips this line of code and directly jumps to the else part of this if else statement.
So it executes the code within the else statement.
If we add a line here to our IF and below 18 you may not vote if you want to extent that we simply add
else colon and then in the next line indented we write whatever we want to write.
Please go and vote.
So now let's execute that code again and as you can see it says Please go and vote here on my console.
And that is pretty much if and else.
So we will use if and L statements quite a lot and you will also see how to use LLF which can cover
multiple other cases in between.
But that's something for later.
For now we're good to go for next video where we'll check out comparison operators.
And this is a comparison operator right here.
This sign here.
So lower than is a comparison operator and we need to check out all the comparison operators in order
to understand if statements even better and use it accordingly in the future.
So see you in the next video.